# What is OAuth?

**1. What is OAuth?**

>> A protocol allows authenticated access to their assets without sharing their passwords. Instead of share the users their passwords, this protocol works like an agent between the users and their information. In authentication parlance, this is known as secure, third-party, user-agent, delegated authorization.

**2. Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.**

>> When you for example, log onto any website that offers the opportuinty to log using another website, like, Netlify and Heroku logging onti using GitHub.

**3. How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?**

**1.** The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.

**2.** A one-time token will be generated by the second website, and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.

**3.** Those token and secret will be givent to user's client software by the first site.

**4.** The authorization will be required.

**5.** The user approves a particular transaction type at the first website.

**6.** The user is given an approved access token.

**7.** The user gives the approvemnt to the access token to the first site.

**8.**  Then a successfully completed transaction will shown to the user.

**4. What is OpenID?**

>> It allows humans logging for the machine, its about authentication.

<br>
<br>
<br>


# Authentication and Authorization Flows


**1. What is the difference between authorization and authentication?**

> Authorization: The identity of users are checked for providing the access to the system. Users are valid and its done before authentication, besides it needs a user's log in details.

> Authentication: For this one, users are checked for accessing the resources and they're not valid. Uses OpenID Connect (OIDC) Protocol and OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework to authenticate users and get their authorization to access protected resources.

**2. What is Authorization Code Flow?**

>> Exchanges an Authorization Code for a token which happened because of most of the we-apps are server side and their codes are not public.


**3. What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?**

>> A key that used for security.

**4. What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?**

>> which is intended for Public Clients, or applications which are unable to securely store Client Secrets.

**5. What is Client Credentials Flow?**

>> For the (M2M) Machine-to-Machine app, using username and passwords or social logings make no sense, and for the back-end site the server and the system authenticates and authorizes the app rather than a user. 

**6. What is Device Authorization Flow?**

>> Instead of authenticate the user directly, the device asks the user to go to a link on their device and authorize it.

**7. What is Resource Owner Password Flow?**

>> The Resource Owner Password Flow can be used by highly trusted applications to request that users give credentials (username and password) via an interactive form. 





## Resources : 

[What is OAuth](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)

[Authentication and Authorization Flows](https://auth0.com/docs/flows)

